h1. LAZAR-WEBSERVICE

This is an example "OpenTox":http://opentox.org webservice for the "@lazar@":http://lazar.in-silico.de prediction system and public data from the "DSSTOX":http://www.epa.gov/nheerl/dsstox/ project.

h2. REST API

| *Description*					|	*Method*	| *URI*						|	*Parameters*																			|
| _List all models_			|	GET 			| /models					|																										|
| _Show a single model_	|	GET 			| /models/{id}		|																										|
| _Predict smiles_			|	GET 			| /models/{id}		| smiles																						|
| _Create a model_ 			|	POST 			| /models					| structure_file, activity_file, username, password |
| _Delete a model_			|	PUT 			| /models/{id}		| username, password																|

h2. Return values

	Success: XML file with requested information
	Failure: Text with error description

h2. Input file format

To create a model you have to POST files with training data. Both input files should have 2 columns, delimited by a tab or whitespaces. No headers are allowed.

structure_file:

	First column: (Unique) compound ID
	Second column: Smiles string (structure_file)

activity_file:

	First column: Compound ID
	Second column: Toxic activity (1 (active) or 0 (inactive) for classification)
	Note: numerical values for regression problems will be supported in a future version

You can provide more than one activity per compound ID (for replicated experiments). Activites without structures and structures without activities will be ignored. 

h2. Examples

h3. Display all available models

	@curl -X GET http://localhost:3000/models@

h3. Display information for a single model

	@curl -X GET http://localhost:3000/models/1@

Note: Detailed model annotations (data sources, endpoint definitions, validation results, ...) will be provided by a separate component.

h3. Predict rodent carcinogenicity (CPDB multi_cell_call) for Aniline

	@curl -X GET http://localhost:3000/models/1?smiles=c1cccc1N@

Important: Smiles strings have to be URL encoded!

h3. Create a new prediction model for hamster carcinogenicity

	@curl -X POST -F structure_file=@hamster_carcinogenicity.smi -F activity_file=@hamster_carcinogenicity.class -F username=secret -F password=secret http://localhost:3000/models@

h3. Delete a model

	@curl -X DELETE -d username=secret -d password=secret http://localhost:3000/models/1@

h2. Error codes

	200     OK
	404     Not Found
	500     Internal Server Error	
	503     Service Unavailable

h2. Installation

* Get the source code for the webservice

	@git clone git://github.com/helma/lazar-webservice.git@

* Install lazar-core and prepare the lazar webservice

bc.  cd lazar-webservice
	rake lazar:setup

	If lazar-core does not compile
		
		* Make sure, that you have the development libraries "Swig":www.swig.org, "GSL":www.gnu.org/software/gsl, "Boost":www.boost.org, "OpenBabel":openbabel.org, "R":www.r-project.org installed
		* Configure R with @./configure --without-blas --enable-BLAS-shlib --enable-R-shlib@
		* Install the R kernlab package:

bc.  wget http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/kernlab_0.9-8.tar.gz
			R CMD INSTALL kernlab_0.9-8.tar.gz

		* Check the paths in the Makefile of lib/lazar-core and adjust them to your system settings

* Start the service

	@script/server@

Now you should be able to contact localhost:3000 and use the REST API.
